our commenters beat us to the punch line
on this one I wonder why they put huge
wads of pre-chewed gum on this cart one
wrote of the r-tx 2060 KO is double
stacked at nine millimeters they're all
packed
following our interesting discoveries of
the r-tx 2060 KO the card which features
a fused down r-tx 2080 die where an
nvidia accidentally forgot to turn a few
things off we wanted to look more into
the actual quality of the 1660s super
cooler that was tossed on to a higher
end GPU in this benchmark we'll be
focusing almost entirely on GT r6
thermals for components under those nine
millimeter tall thermal pads or well two
of them at total that by using hand
placed thermocouples across the board
will also look at noise numbers and the
V BIOS default profiles and temperature
targets to determine whether EVGA used
peppermint or spearmint thermal pads and
for how long prior to application they
were pre-chewed before that this video
is brought to you by Thermal Grizzlies
conduct a not liquid metal conductor not
as what we've used in all of our liquid
metal and delayed thermal tests capable
of dropping CV thermals significantly
and replacing the stock thermal
interface over CPU thermals don't just
allow better overclocks but also lower
noise levels because the transfer
efficiency is increased the mix of
gallium and indium makes for a thermal
conductivity of 73 watts per meter
Kelvin outclassing traditional pastes
significantly learn more at the link in
the description below it was a pretty
good comment to be fair and we did laugh
at that one
so the 2060 ko should be pretty well
known at this point if you don't know
why it's actually kind of special unlike
any other 2060 on the market it's
because it's got the tu-104 rather than
tu 106 dies tu-104 - 150 and this
difference is what makes the ko
accidentally oops a lot better at things
like blender and significantly better at
some specific applications that we
tested in the professional space so it
was an interesting card and Nvidia
legitimately did just let this one slip
through by accident and it's probably
not going to change meaning the teeth
the higher-end 20 60 dies that are fused
down versions of the 20 80 and
technically slightly larger and service
areas by 100
squared larger those will as far as we
know remain the same and Vidya is not
supposed to be turning those features
off that it accidentally left on when
fusing off the parts so one quick thing
I want to address before getting into
the thermals on this which is of course
the most interesting part of this story
the quick thing is that the story got
some legs and it didn't take off a bit
which is really cool people covered it
and report it on our reporting one
downside of that game of telephone is
that a couple of the websites did sort
of maybe miss here something we were
saying which is that specifically the
2060 ko is as far as EVGA has told us
guaranteed to have the die that was in
it in our 2060 KO deep dive where we
made that discovery that's not supposed
to change EVGA is specifically using the
newer 2060
that's a fused down version of the 2080
it's not a lottery I saw some websites
erroneously reporting that we said it
was a lottery if you watch the video
that is not even close to what we said
what we said is that the 2060 ko will
have that GPU period and that it's the
other card that might be a lottery the
other 2060s unless a manufacturer says
we are guaranteeing to the best of our
ability that card X has this new die it
is a lottery of just whatever Nvidia
sold to them for a 2060 at the time
because they call both original 2060 and
the new 2060 a 2060 even though it's two
different dies so the only part that's a
lottery is if you buy cards that don't
specifically have confirmation from
media or the manufacturer what dies in
there and we did get confirmation in
that video that the newer of the two
dies is in this one so I wanted to
correct that from our peers because
people didn't seem to quite get that
part and it is rather important to the
story
alright so use chewing gum thermal pads
we've seen this before on EVGA coolers
and some of the tear downs but basically
what they've done is it is a bit
annoying because it's a cost down
measure it's it's obviously meant to
save some cost it's so that they don't
have to redesign a cooler and what you
end up with is a pretty basic cooler
that's been on several of the lower end
EVGA
now it works fine overall but you start
scaling it up to these higher end
devices like 2060 and what happens is
UGA has to find ways to get everything
to fit together without making new
tooling or redesigning the cooler to
more appropriately accomodate the
placement of the components on the PCB
so what they've done here to get
everything lined up is they've double
stacked their own pads they're not even
really technically centered but they're
mostly there so the right side of the
GPU has a large 4 5 millimeter thermal
pad and then on top of it there's
another one totals about 9 to 10
millimeters of thermal pads and that is
if you don't know suboptimal very basic
lesson here but I think everyone knows
this who's watching our channel but if
you don't that's cool you want as little
of an interface as possible for the most
part between the device you're trying to
cool and the cooler itself and in this
instance they're all pads are going to
have significantly worse thermal
conductivity they are not really meant
to be the cooling device they're meant
to be a transfer medium hence Tim as
often the the acronym for thermal
interface material so what's going on
here is there's a hell of a lot more
thermal interface then should it exist
between the silicon component which is a
flip chip BGA package 4G DDR 6 and then
of course its subsequent exterior
packaging our case the black module
that's on the board and the actual
cooler itself which is in this instance
going to be either aluminum fin stacks
or bits and pieces of the copper heat
pipe depending on where the particular
at what point you're looking at the
thermal pad these stacked portions only
in the sort of off center and it's not
the entire length of the thin the memory
module on the lower end of the card
towards the PCIe slot only uses one
throttle pad it is still very thick to
the extent that it really should be
improved EVGA should try to bring this
cooler down closer if it can but it's
got two benefits to it one of them is
that there is a phenom pad on the exact
opposite side of those modules that
sinks into the back plate so EVGA is
doing well to actually leverage its
backplate a lot of companies don't do
that
and the other one is that the other note
anyway is that because those memory
modules are close to the PCI you slot
they're pretty much always going to be
warmer components close to the PCIe slot
run hot because since this is a well in
this orientation anyway it's top-down
fin orientation where it's going like
that the airs going to exhaust either
down or up and well both really but when
it exhausts down it's hitting a
motherboard it's getting sort of trapped
and some of it will recirculate so
device is down here towards PCIe slot
will always be warmer now the question
is is it warmer than the double stack
thermal pads and so what we've done is
line up three probes we have one that's
down here on the bottom right outermost
VRA
or vram component just below the GPU and
to the right towards the PCIe slot we
have another one that is on its
immediate neighbor to the right towards
the PCIe slot but is cooled by the
double stack pads although that one
specifically is directly under a single
pad for that portion and then finally
our our next module would be the one
that's up a bit more to weight from the
PCIe slot it's gonna be cooler but it is
directly under the double stacked
they're all pad so that's the one we're
most interested in and that's probably
enough to get started for the testing so
let's get into the benchmarks will get
thermals noise toward the end of course
quick caveat here because Nvidia
restricts access to the sensors that are
actually in the GPU in the GDD r6 rather
we are using thermocouples they are
perfectly inaccurate meaning that the
inaccuracy of a of the thermocouples
here doesn't change is not variable it's
fixed and known the only thing we're not
100% sure on is exactly the Delta
between the sensor in the flip chip BGA
package and in the exterior t-case
measurement but we have a pretty good
range and we'll talk about that too
our testing will first start with the
auto configuration as established by V
BIOS GPU temperature targets we also ran
the usual 40 DB a noise normalize
testing and did some additional testing
with an overclock but wanted to see the
baseline set by the auto profile keep in
mind that we're using thermocouples for
these readings as read from the top
center of the memory MA
this allows us to keep any back plates
on the cards rather than using thermal
imaging of the backside which is useful
since half of the back plates act as
insulators and thermal traps and the
other half act as proper conductors
we're still not right on top of the
memory die which is flip chip BGA and
closest to the PCB but we're close
enough to establish a reading that is
consistent and reliable the Delta is
variable but it's typically about 8 to
10 degrees Celsius between the package
and the actual silicon with Auto
settings the first chart establishes
that the memory module is closest to the
motherboard run hotter unsurprisingly as
there's less passive airflow over these
areas even still the upper right
position memory module with its 9 to 10
millimeters of double stack thermal pads
managed to better thermal performance
than the more directly cooled PCIe
memory module with thinner thermal
interfaces the Delta is about 4 to 5
degrees at 69 to 70 degrees Celsius for
the more direct thermal pads and about
74 degrees for the thicker thermal pads
most of this has to do with positioning
as being away from the PCIe slot helps
and the rest has to do with the fans
ability to push air to the area affected
and immediately surrounding each module
so if we could do a like-for-like test
which is not possible here and test a
cooler avers cooler beyond the same
memory module so not different locations
on the board and with two different
thermal pad solutions then we might be
able to really see what the the true
difference is but because we're checking
different locations we end up with a
problem where other variables come into
play like proximity to the motherboard
at steady state with heavy load the
memory was more significantly impacted
by physical location on the board than
by the thermal pad stacking although
suboptimal and overall a cost-saving
measure the results show that the GTD
are six modules are still well within
spec this might matter more if the
memory ran a higher frequency or if you
wanted to lower the noise levels so
let's take a look at some of that this
chart shows the fan ramp for the Auto V
BIOS GPU temperature is the driving
factor for fan speed and in this case
EVGA has set the target to about 69
degrees Celsius that has the fan
represented on the right axis ramped to
about 2,300 rpm to sustain the
temperature target EVGA tends to run
more aggressive fan targets than
necessary a lot of the time but given
how and videos GPUs will boost higher
for every couple degree
Celsius it's not without some benefit
for the trade-off in this instance
because the fan cannot follow GDR six
thermals the side benefit is that it
forces g6 they're almost remain well
within the sub 105 degrees specification
as for how loud that number it's 2,300
rpm we've got another chart for that
this plot shows the EVGA rpm two DBA
response plotted in five percent fan
speed increments these measurements are
taken at 20 inches away as is standard
for our noise testing and for our noise
normalization tests the cards of low end
bottoms out at about 10 80 rpm for our
card you can bring the card lower but we
lose test resolution below this point
for noise level electrical component
noise not necessarily coil whine but
just the noise of electronics in general
begins to interfere with test resolution
below 30 DBA in our environment our
noise floor for the room is about 26 DB
which is pretty damn low but obviously
you can go a bit lower and say a semi
anechoic chamber the 40 DBA mark is
about 66% or around 20 50 rpm we find
this is fairly standard for fans of this
quantity and size the auto setting
previously shown had us at about forty
2.2 DBA
so it's leading toward the aggressive
side to maintain those thermals the
question becomes whether those g6
thermals get any more unreasonable at
lower noise levels but realistically we
think it'll mostly be fine
we can step down to 40 DBA to look at
this as this is our standard test noise
level but that's notably not a huge step
down from 43 ish our 40 DB a noise
normalize thermals are next and this one
we take control of the fan speed and
establish an unmoving rpm the EVGA r-tx
20 60 KO ends up maintaining a lower
PCIe GD our six results about eighty
degrees Celsius as a matter that T case
this is with the more normally sized
they're all pads so the worst number is
coming from something that what to
mention 'el wisdom tells us as a bad
design the double stack they're all pad
hotspot still maintains a results of
about seventy nine degrees Celsius with
the cooler of the two benefited by its
distance from the slot measuring again
at about four to five degrees lower
given that T case is an imperfect
measurement and we're not exactly sure
what the chip temperature is and given
that the case ambient temperature can
easily add 10 degrees to these results
we're approaching limits of what we're
comfortable with for gt-r six there are
moles
in warmer cases or in higher ambient
environments than ours we would
recommend sticking to the stock via BIOS
or running a more aggressive fan curve
to keep that number in check
80 degrees sounds fine for g6 thermals
and it is if we can measure that at the
chip level but NVIDIA doesn't allow
external access to sensors that exists
on its GG are six modules so we have to
rely on thermocouples thermocouples are
perfectly imprecise though again so it's
not like variance is a concern it's just
that we're at the edge of the comfort
zone here for our test resolution but
the lower module with normal throwing
pads is just as bad for overclocked
thermals we assigned the same fan
profile as in the earlier Auto test and
maintained about 2,300 rpm once again
the result was about two to three
degrees warmer and memory thermals even
with the 640 mega Hertz offset and so we
can't really say that it meaningfully
drags down the performance overall then
this is an instance where a EVGA could
absolutely improve the design and we'd
like to see that the challenge is that
the company is trying to do a cost down
2060 and the way it did that was by
pulling a 1660 super cooler off the
shelf and throwing it onto a 20 60 and
then restricting the power offset to
nothing so you're a hundred percent
power you can't go more than that that's
all fine because they do hit the 300
dollar price point and EVGA has
apparently enough margin to come down to
280 so as they did when it when it
launched and as they can still do
apparently from what they've told us so
the goal was a cost down card and that's
what EVGA achieves now the thermal
solution is suboptimal and inefficient
but it actually wasn't outright bad and
given how the thermal pads are stacked
on the GDR six on the right side of the
GPU we didn't expect significantly worse
they're almost ultimately you can't run
the fans beat as quietly as you could
with a more efficient design so we
wouldn't really recommend dropping below
the 40 DBA mark that we measured at
2,300 rpm the card was doing fine it was
well within spec even when accounting
for the Delta between what we can see in
our thermocouple and what's probably
happening in the chip itself which will
be a couple degrees higher of course so
if you stick
towards that auto fan profile it's fine
it's really not that big of a deal and
we did think it would be worse so I mean
it's good to see that EVGA didn't ship
something that just catches itself on
fire right away like power color did but
the other side of it is that it is
suboptimal so if you want to run it
quieter you're gonna be limited and
restricted there we would recommend not
dropping too low on the fan speeds
because those modules close to the PCIe
slot are going to run hot and that's
even true for the ones that don't have
the double stacked throne pads but still
have stupid thick their own pads and
overall inefficient cooling solutions
for for what's going on a good amount of
air does get through the cooler because
I mean it's two fans there's not a lot
of obstruction between the fins and the
PCB that gets down to the memory it does
help out and overall EVGA is in
territory where it's fine but your noise
restricted so that's the card overall we
thought it would be much worse than it
was for a GT dr6 thermals if you're not
really planning to overclock recapping
the same conclusion we had before this
is a fine solution if you specifically
want some benefits for blender or some
of the other applications we tested with
spec view perf and how that applies to
your workloads obviously will be more up
to you than to us but if you do care
more about a an overall higher quality
cooler solution and the the the benefit
to production workloads is not
meaningful to you at all because you're
just looking for gaming then buy a
better card EVGA makes them their
competitors make them you can still
stick close to the $300 mark but the
better card angle would be more for for
example either additional power overhead
if you want to do overclocking because
this is going to be very limited there
you have a fixed amount of power that's
it you can't push it or if you don't
care about overclocking then you just
get a cooler that's going to be better
optimized for noise normalized thermals
you can bring it down to a lower noise
level and maintain the same thermal
performance if you have a better cooler
and those do exist similar at similar
prices so those are your considerations
the card itself remains a very good buy
if you want something that's shockingly
good at something like blender or some
of the
some of the spec viewer for clothes we
tested but we'd imagine that market is
relatively small at this price point
most of those users are used to spending
a lot of money to get something so
otherwise you've got options but that's
it overall better than expected and we
were considering testing it with actual
chewing gum but when we asked the gas
station clerk which ones were
non-conductive they couldn't help us so
unfortunately we're going to have to
reach out to a couple of bubblegum
companies and see if we can perhaps get
an answer on non-conductive gum one of
our concerns is that pre chewing it will
potentially predispose that chewing gum
to becoming conductive as it heats up
and maybe melts out the saliva into the
memory so these are the kinds of things
that you come to us for because we're
really focused on good testing and
obviously we want to make sure we do it
right so that's it for this one thanks
for watching subscribe for more you can
get a store that gamers access that net
if you'd like to buy something and help
us fund our gas station runs where we're
going to I shouldn't say we're going to
where we're going to joke about
purchasing thermal pads in the form of
spearmint or you can go to
patreon.com/scishow sexist or some
behind the scenes videos thanks for
watching we'll see you all next time
[Music]
that's pretty grass